# **DEEP COMPUTER VISION USING CONVOLUTIONAL NEURAL NETWORKS - QUESTIONS**

1. **What are the advantages of CNN regarding DNN in image classification?**  

   These are the main advantages of a CNN over a fully connected DNN for image classification:
    * Because consecutive layers are only partially connected and because it heavily reuses its weights, a CNN has many fewer parameters than a fully connected DNN, which makes it much faster to train, reduces the risk of overfitting, and requires much less training data.
    * When a CNN has learned a kernel that can detect a particular feature, it can detect that feature anywhere in the image. In contrast, when a DNN learns a feature in one location, it can detect it only in that particular location. Since images typically have very repetitive features, CNNs are able to generalize much better than DNNs for image processing tasks such as classification, using fewer training examples.
    * Finally, a DNN has no prior knowledge of how pixels are organized; it does not know that nearby pixels are close. A CNN's architecture embeds this prior knowledge. Lower layers typically identify features in small areas of the images, while higher layers combine the lower-level features into larger features. This works well with most natural images, giving CNNs a decisive head start compared to DNNs.

2. **Imagine a CNN composed of three convolutional layers, where each layer has filter 3x3, stride - 2 and "same" padding. The lowest layer generates 100 feature maps, the middle - 200 and the top layer - 400. What is the total number of parameters in that network? If we use float32 types, how much RAM is required to predict one sample value? How much RAM is required to predict the values of a minibatch of 50 samples?**  

   Let's compute how many parameters the CNN has.
    * Since its first convolutional layer has 3 × 3 kernels, and the input has three channels (red, green, and blue), each feature map has 3 × 3 × 3 weights, plus a bias term. That's 28 parameters per feature map. Since this first convolutional layer has 100 feature maps, it has a total of 2,800 parameters. The second convolutional layer has 3 × 3 kernels and its input is the set of 100 feature maps of the previous layer, so each feature map has 3 × 3 × 100 = 900 weights, plus a bias term. Since it has 200 feature maps, this layer has 901 × 200 = 180,200 parameters. Finally, the third and last convolutional layer also has 3 × 3 kernels, and its input is the set of 200 feature maps of the previous layers, so each feature map has 3 × 3 × 200 = 1,800 weights, plus a bias term. Since it has 400 feature maps, this layer has a total of 1,801 × 400 = 720,400 parameters. All in all, the CNN has 2,800 + 180,200 + 720,400 =  903,400 parameters.<br/>
    * Now let's compute how much RAM this neural network will require (at least) when making a prediction for a single instance. First let's compute the feature map size for each layer. Since we are using a stride of 2 and `"same"` padding, the horizontal and vertical dimensions of the feature maps are divided by 2 at each layer (rounding up if necessary). So, as the input channels are 200 × 300 pixels, the first layer's feature maps are 100 × 150, the second layer's feature maps are 50 × 75, and the third layer's feature maps are 25 × 38. Since 32 bits is 4 bytes and the first convolutional layer has 100 feature maps, this first layer takes up 4 × 100 × 150 × 100 = 6 million bytes (6 MB). The second layer takes up 4 × 50 × 75 × 200 = 3 million bytes (3 MB). Finally, the third layer takes up 4 × 25 × 38 × 400 = 1,520,000 bytes (about 1.5 MB). However, once a layer has been computed, the memory occupied by the previous layer can be released, so if everything is well optimized, only 6 + 3 = 9 million bytes (9 MB) of RAM will be required (when the second layer has just been computed, but the memory occupied by the first layer has not been released yet). But wait, you also need to add the memory occupied by the CNN's parameters! We computed earlier that it has 903,400 parameters, each using up 4 bytes, so this adds 3,613,600 bytes (about 3.6 MB). The total RAM required is therefore (at least) 12,613,600 bytes (about 12.6 MB).<br/>
    * Lastly, let's compute the minimum amount of RAM required when training the CNN on a mini-batch of 50 images. During training TensorFlow uses backpropagation, which requires keeping all values computed during the forward pass until the reverse pass begins. So we must compute the total RAM required by all layers for a single instance and multiply that by 50. At this point, let's start counting in megabytes rather than bytes. We computed before that the three layers require respectively 6, 3, and 1.5 MB for each instance. That's a total of 10.5 MB per instance, so for 50 instances the total RAM required is 525 MB. Add to that the RAM required by the input images, which is 50 × 4 × 200 × 300 × 3 = 36 million bytes (36 MB), plus the RAM required for the model parameters, which is about 3.6 MB (computed earlier), plus some RAM for the gradients (we will neglect this since it can be released gradually as backpropagation goes down the layers during the reverse pass). We are up to a total of roughly 525 + 36 + 3.6 = 564.6 MB, and that's really an optimistic bare minimum.

3. **During deep CNN training, specify five approaches to try when the GPU has too little RAM to handle this task.**  

   If your GPU runs out of memory while training a CNN, here are five things you could try to solve the problem (other than purchasing a GPU with more RAM):
    * Reduce the mini-batch size.
    * Reduce dimensionality using a larger stride in one or more layers.
    * Remove one or more layers.
    * Use 16-bit floats instead of 32-bit floats.
    * Distribute the CNN across multiple devices.

4. **Why is there a better to utilise the max pooling layer than the convolutional layer with the same stride?**  

   A max pooling layer has no parameters at all, whereas a convolutional layer has quite a few (see the previous questions).

5. **When do we need to use the local response normalization layer?**  

    A local response normalization layer makes the neurons that most strongly activate inhibit neurons at the same location but in neighboring feature maps, which encourages different feature maps to specialize and pushes them apart, forcing them to explore a wider range of features. It is typically used in the lower layers to have a larger pool of low-level features that the upper layers can build upon.

6. **Specify significant improvements of AlexNet regarding LeNet-5. Compare GoogLeNet, ResNet, SENet and Xception in a similar way.**  

   The main innovations in AlexNet compared to LeNet-5 are that it is much larger and deeper, and it stacks convolutional layers directly on top of each other, instead of stacking a pooling layer on top of each convolutional layer. The main innovation in GoogLeNet is the introduction of _inception modules_, which make it possible to have a much deeper net than previous CNN architectures, with fewer parameters. ResNet's main innovation is the introduction of skip connections, which make it possible to go well beyond 100 layers. Arguably, its simplicity and consistency are also rather innovative. SENet's main innovation was the idea of using an SE block (a two-layer dense network) after every inception module in an inception network or every residual unit in a ResNet to recalibrate the relative importance of feature maps. Xception's main innovation was the use of depthwise separable convolutional layers, which look at spatial patterns and depthwise patterns separately. Lastly, EfficientNet's main innotation was the compound scaling method, to efficiently scale a model to a larger compute budget.

7. **What is a fully connected convolutional neural network? How to convert a dense layer into a convolutional layer?**  

   Fully convolutional networks are neural networks composed exclusively of convolutional and pooling layers. FCNs can efficiently process images of any width and height (at least above the minimum size). They are most useful for object detection and semantic segmentation because they only need to look at the image once (instead of having to run a CNN multiple times on different parts of the image). If you have a CNN with some dense layers on top, you can convert these dense layers to convolutional layers to create an FCN: just replace the lowest dense layer with a convolutional layer with a kernel size equal to the layer's input size, with one filter per neuron in the dense layer, and using `"valid"` padding. Generally the stride should be 1, but you can set it to a higher value if you want. The activation function should be the same as the dense layer's. The other dense layers should be converted the same way, but using 1 × 1 filters. It is actually possible to convert a trained CNN this way by appropriately reshaping the dense layers' weight matrices.

8. **Specify the greatest difficulty regarding the semantic segmentation.**  

   The main technical difficulty of semantic segmentation is the fact that a lot of the spatial information gets lost in a CNN as the signal flows through each layer, especially in pooling layers and layers with a stride greater than 1. This spatial information needs to be restored somehow to accurately predict the class of each pixel.
