# **LOADING AND PREPROCESSING DATA WITH TENSORFLOW - QUESTIONS**

1. **Specify the advantages of using the Data interface.**  

   Ingesting a large dataset and preprocessing it efficiently can be a complex engineering challenge. The Data API makes it fairly simple. It offers many features, including loading data from various sources (such as text or binary files), reading data in parallel from multiple sources, transforming it, interleaving the records, shuffling the data, batching it, and prefetching it.

2. **Specify the advantages of splitting large datasets into many files.**  

   Splitting a large dataset into multiple files makes it possible to shuffle it at a coarse level before shuffling it at a finer level using a shuffling buffer. It also makes it possible to handle huge datasets that do not fit on a single machine. It's also simpler to manipulate thousands of small files rather than one huge file; for example, it's easier to split the data into multiple subsets. Lastly, if the data is split across multiple files spread across multiple servers, it is possible to download several files from different servers simultaneously, which improves the bandwidth usage.

3. **How can we infer that there is a bottleneck in the input pipeline? How to remove it?**  

   You can use TensorBoard to visualize profiling data: if the GPU is not fully utilized then your input pipeline is likely to be the bottleneck. You can fix it by making sure it reads and preprocesses the data in multiple threads in parallel, and ensuring it prefetches a few batches. If this is insufficient to get your GPU to 100% usage during training, make sure your preprocessing code is optimized. You can also try saving the dataset into multiple TFRecord files, and if necessary perform some of the preprocessing ahead of time so that it does not need to be done on the fly during training (TF Transform can help with this). If necessary, use a machine with more CPU and RAM, and ensure that the GPU bandwidth is large enough.

4. **Can we store arbitrary binary data in TFRecord format or only serialized proto buffers?**  

   A TFRecord file is composed of a sequence of arbitrary binary records: you can store absolutely any binary data you want in each record. However, in practice most TFRecord files contain sequences of serialized protocol buffers. This makes it possible to benefit from the advantages of protocol buffers, such as the fact that they can be read easily across multiple platforms and languages and their definition can be updated later in a backward-compatible way.

5. **Why is it valuable to parse all data to Example proto buffers?**  

    The `Example` protobuf format has the advantage that TensorFlow provides some operations to parse it (the `tf.io.parse`*`example()` functions) without you having to define your own format. It is sufficiently flexible to represent instances in most datasets. However, if it does not cover your use case, you can define your own protocol buffer, compile it using `protoc` (setting the `--descriptor_set_out` and `--include_imports` arguments to export the protobuf descriptor), and use the `tf.io.decode_proto()` function to parse the serialized protobufs (see the "Custom protobuf" section of the notebook for an example). It's more complicated, and it requires deploying the descriptor along with the model, but it can be done.

6. **When can we use compression during the usage of the TFRecord format?**  

   When using TFRecords, you will generally want to activate compression if the TFRecord files will need to be downloaded by the training script, as compression will make files smaller and thus reduce download time. But if the files are located on the same machine as the training script, it's usually preferable to leave compression off, to avoid wasting CPU for decompression.

7. **Data can be preliminarily preprocessed directly during writing files, inside tf.data pipeline, in preprocessing layers or using the TF Transform library. Specify the advantages and disadvantages of each solution.**  

   Let's look at the pros and cons of each preprocessing option:
    * If you preprocess the data when creating the data files, the training script will run faster, since it will not have to perform preprocessing on the fly. In some cases, the preprocessed data will also be much smaller than the original data, so you can save some space and speed up downloads. It may also be helpful to materialize the preprocessed data, for example to inspect it or archive it. However, this approach has a few cons. First, it's not easy to experiment with various preprocessing logics if you need to generate a preprocessed dataset for each variant. Second, if you want to perform data augmentation, you have to materialize many variants of your dataset, which will use a large amount of disk space and take a lot of time to generate. Lastly, the trained model will expect preprocessed data, so you will have to add preprocessing code in your application before it calls the model. There's a risk of code duplication and preprocessing mismatch in this case.
    * If the data is preprocessed with the tf.data pipeline, it's much easier to tweak the preprocessing logic and apply data augmentation. Also, tf.data makes it easy to build highly efficient preprocessing pipelines (e.g., with multithreading and prefetching). However, preprocessing the data this way will slow down training. Moreover, each training instance will be preprocessed once per epoch rather than just once if the data was preprocessed when creating the data files. Well, unless the dataset fits in RAM and you can cache it using the dataset's `cache()` method. Lastly, the trained model will still expect preprocessed data. But if you use preprocessing layers in your tf.data pipeline to handle the preprocessing step, then you can just reuse these layers in your final model (adding them after training), to avoid code duplication and preprocessing mismatch.
    * If you add preprocessing layers to your model, you will only have to write the preprocessing code once for both training and inference. If your model needs to be deployed to many different platforms, you will not need to write the preprocessing code multiple times. Plus, you will not run the risk of using the wrong preprocessing logic for your model, since it will be part of the model. On the downside, preprocessing the data on the fly during training will slow things down, and each instance will be preprocessed once per epoch.

8. **Specify several popular categorical encoding techniques.**  

   Let's look at how to encode categorical text features and text:
    * To encode a categorical feature that has a natural order, such as a movie rating (e.g., "bad," "average," "good"), the simplest option is to use ordinal encoding: sort the categories in their natural order and map each category to its rank (e.g., "bad" maps to 0, "average" maps to 1, and "good" maps to 2). However, most categorical features don't have such a natural order. For example, there's no natural order for professions or countries. In this case, you can use one-hot encoding, or embeddings if there are many categories. With Keras, the `StringLookup` layer can be used for ordinal encoding (using the default `output_mode="int"`), or one-hot encoding (using `output_mode="one_hot"`). It can also perform multi-hot encoding (using `output_mode="multi_hot"`) if you want to encode multiple categorical text features together, assuming they share the same categories and it doesn't matter which feature contributed which category. For trainable embeddings, you must first use the `StringLookup` layer to produce an ordinal encoding, then use the `Embedding` layer.
    * For text, the `TextVectorization` layer is easy to use and it can work well for simple tasks, or you can use TF Text for more advanced features. However, you'll often want to use pretrained language models, which you can obtain using tools like TF Hub or Hugging Face's Transformers library. These last two options are discussed in Chapter 16.
